# Quark: Tiny prompt, massive ideas
## Jam with randomness
in 2019, I discovered this incredible project made by Brian Eno (a musical and artistic legend known for being the godfather of Ambient music, helping Talking Heads, David Bowie, DEVO, U2, Coldplay, and more create their most acclaimed releases) and a painter by the name of Peter Schmidt.It was apparently an index card set created to help creative "ruts" and when you don't know where to begin on a project, giving you very (at times) abstract prompts to get your mind stirring of ideas as of where to take things with that unique limitation in the card it gave. The name of the card set? Oblique Strategies. I thought "wow that sounds so cool, what the fuck!!", I used it right away and had a *blast*. Later on the next year I read a book named "Visual Music" about Brian Eno's creative process. Going over how creative fields don't exist in a vaccum + how different disciplines drive and inspire others. How generative systems can be made to create art based on patterns found in that medium or another (seemingly seperate) medium entirely.

Fast forward another year later in 2021 of March, I made a P5.JS + Godot project based around compiling all of the cards out there of Oblique Strategies, across editions. Then fast forward *another* year and a half, I decided to say "y'know what, let me make my own card set!" and that edition is still available as website at:
[https://raineivyaeera.github.io/raineland/Velvet%20Dice/velvetdice.html](Velvet Dice)

But it went through 2 editions/changes itself, where it was more abstract and me-core, and then the version you see on the site that has those cards + a bunch of other generators! Including Hex color generating, random emoji, some more abstract stuff like a "contrasts interpolate" catagory. But I was never really too happy with this. The cards felt cheeky and overly self indulgent in a way that didn't translate to other people, the textures were a waste, I never used the contrasts interpolate section because it goes against the ethos of Oblique Strategies itself, and overall the name was *stupid*. Like, Velvet Dice? Really?? Tell me you use ChatGPT AI generated names without telling me you use ChatGPT AI generated names.
